So what do you see
when you look at a fruit fly?
Probably a nuisance, right?
Well, I'd agree with you, but I'd also say
that fruit flies are some
of the smartest creatures on the planet.
And what I found is that fruit flies,
along with some other
organisms in nature,
are really good models for creating
low-cost, autonomous robots.
And so today I'm going to tell you
about some behaviors in nature
that I find really fascinating,
and then talk about how
I'm applying those behaviors
to create flying robots like this one,
for search and rescue,
and emergency response.
So all of this started two summers ago,
when my family went to India on vacation.
We were there for about three weeks
and we had a good time,
but when we got back,
we realized we had left some
bananas on the kitchen counter.
So there's this bunch of rotten bananas
sitting on our kitchen counter,
and as a result our house
was filled with fruit flies.
So I kept trying to swat them,
they kept escaping,
and I got really mad.
But then I started to think.
Fruit flies are really tiny,
they probably have a really small brain,
they must have awful vision,
they really don't have
very much of anything.
So what could they possibly be doing
to escape so effectively?
(Laughter)
And as it turns out --
the answer is -- a lot.
First, fruit flies take the time
to plan out their escape,
even when they ultimately decide
to stay where they are.
To carry out this escape,
they first jump to the side,
and then they use their wings
to move vertically.
And all of this happens
within about a third of a second,
so literally in the blink of an eye.
So that's cool, but there's
something more going on here.
Remember how I said
that fruit flies have awful vision?
Well, that's true
in the conventional sense.
For example, this is how
fruit fly vision compares to ours.
But here's the thing.
Because their eyes
produce such little information,
they can process
that information really quickly,
so they can actually see
10 times faster than we can.
That may be a little hard to visualize,
so to put it in perspective,
I slowed down both how fruit flies
would see and how we would see.
You can see that although
we see in much more detail,
fruit flies can see 10 times faster.
That means they can process all
of that information and all that motion
and react to that really quickly.
That's really advantageous when they're
trying to escape from something.
And so in some sense,
fruit flies are so good at escaping
because they have really bad eyesight.
So they can't see a lot,
but that means that they can
process what they can see
and react to that really quickly.
So around the same time
as this fruit fly incident,
flying robots, or drones,
had been in the news a lot.
And while most of the stories
I read, like these,
talked about how these robots
were crashing into things,
or taking selfies,
or doing generally useless things,
I also started to read
about how they may be able to help
after natural disasters.
It turns out that flying robots
are really good,
they're perfect
for these types of applications
because they're really small
and they're really agile.
So they can go into tight spaces
or they can fly around obstacles.
The problem here is they can't really
react to their environment.
For example, if we have a robot like this
and it's going into a building
after an earthquake,
and the ceiling collapses,
then the flying robot is done.
It can't react to that,
it can't respond to that.
So I wanted to see
whether we could make flying robots
respond to moving threats
like fruit flies do.
And so I wanted to see
whether I could draw from what I learned
about fruit fly escape
to make flying robots better.
I spent the next few months
building prototypes,
and sottering and coding,
and this is what I came up with.
It's a really tiny, flying robot,
it's about 10 centimeters across,
and I call it FlyBot.
And it has these two
infrared distance sensors,
so those are the eye-looking
things on either side.
And basically,
they periodically bounce
the small amount of infrared light up
and they measure how much returns.
And based on that, they're able to see
how far something is away from them.
So I created some algorithms
that use these distances
so that each of them
returns a single number.
And I created algorithms
that use these numbers -- two numbers --
to construct a model
of how the threat moves over time.
Based on that,
it actually makes predictions
about when the threat will hit the robot,
and from that it can decide
when and how to escape.
And I'd love to give you guys
a demo of this.
So it'll take me a second to get set up.
And this is a sheet of wood,
so this is what I'm using
to simulate a threat,
but this could be a collapsing ceiling,
or an object that could fall
and damage the drone.
So right now I'm connecting to it,
and once it connects,
I'll be able to show you
how it's able to escape.
OK, so as something approaches,
it's able to detect that
and respond to it really quickly.
And then it mimics
these fruit fly motions.
So it first flies to the side
and then it flies vertically.
Let's see that a couple more times.
I'll catch it.
And it can respond
to different things as well.
So if I try to hit it, for example,
it's able to respond that really quickly.
And so again, this could be used
in search and rescue, right?
So if we have one of these robots
and it's going into
an earthquake-damaged building,
after an earthquake,
and then it sees something,
and it needs to react to that --
So if the ceiling collapses
or something falls.
And it's able to respond to that
and continue what it's doing.
So I'm trying to make
flying robots more autonomous.
Here's a comparison
of how my robot is able to escape
to how fruit flies are able to escape.
This worked really well,
and I wanted to see
what else we could draw from biology
to make flying robots better.
One of the biggest problems
with flying robots
is this thing call mapping.
Basically, making
a map of your environment
so you can see what's around you
and avoid colliding into it.
Again, it turns out that fruit flies
are really good models for this.
So what fruit flies do
is they see in terms of edges.
They have these four
neurons in their brain
that track light and dark edges,
and they use these edges
for a variety of things.
So if I was a fruit fly
and I wanted to hover here,
I would actually look
for this horizontal edge,
and I would track that
and fly in line with that.
And then fruit flies also use edges
for avoiding collisions.
So edges are a really good way
to simplify your environment
because you can discard a lot things
you don't really care about,
like color and texture,
while keeping things you do care about
which are obstacles.
Birds are really good models for mapping,
or for perception, as well.
So what birds have, as you can see,
they have their eyes
on opposite sides of their head.
Rather than doing what we do,
which is using both
of our eyes to see depth,
birds have to use each eye independently.
They can't combine their eyes at all
because their eyes
see completely different things.
So what birds do
is they actually look at how objects
become bigger over time.
So if I was a bird, I guess,
as I get closer to something,
I'd see how it becomes bigger,
and I would actually use that
to see where it is in my environment.
And so to mimic this I created
an algorithm for flying robots.
It's really fast,
it actually can process
81 camera images per second.
And what this does is
it uses a single two-dimensional camera
to make a map of
a three-dimensional environment.
So here you can see,
this is an example
of a cluttered environment.
It's a cluttered lab at Carnegie Mellon.
So first I find edges in that environment,
and then I detect
and associate those edges.
So I say that's the left edge
of an obstacle, and that's the right edge.
Then I look at how
they expand over time,
or how they move apart over time,
just like birds do,
to find where those obstacles are.
And this works really well.
So it's really fast,
it can process 81 images per second,
and it also works really effectively.
So here's a video of how that works.
And so you can see that it's
able to use the expansion of edges.
And edges are everywhere --
every object has edges.
It's able to use
the expansion of those edges
to detect and respond to a variety
of obstacles in this really cluttered lab.
So again that worked really well.
I was able to look
at fruit flies, initially,
and then also birds later on,
and both of those worked really well.
So I wanted to see
whether we could solve other problems
with flying robots based on biology.
So one of the things I was thinking about
was that right now I had done
these things with escaping
and with avoiding obstacles,
but that actually
doesn't do very much for people.
So if I give a firefighter, for example,
one of these drones,
then they really
can't do anything with it.
So it really doesn't find anything.
And so one of the questions I asked was,
what if we had a flying robot
that could actually find things?
So for example, we could send
this robot into a burning building
and it could find where the fire is,
find someone who's trapped.
Again it turns out that fruit flies
are really good models for this,
and I don't even like fruit flies,
I find them really annoying.
But they're good
at almost everything they do.
And so one of the really cool
things about fruit flies
is they're able to zero in
on bananas really well.
And it turns out,
oftentimes they can't even smell that
when they start out.
And so what they do is they look
for these bright yellow objects
that could be bananas,
and they go closer to them
and start smelling them
to determine what they actually are.
So this behavior is something
called sensor fusion
in computer science and robotics.
And what that means
is taking multiple senses,
so vision and smell,
and combining them to get a more
accurate picture of what's around you.
And to actually fly to these bananas --
to fly to these potential bananas --
what fruit flies do,
rather than swerving
or doing this really complicated thing,
at any given time they're either
moving forward or they're turning.
So they alternate
between moving forward and turning.
So they're able to combine
these really simple behaviors
to really effectively
and really efficiently find food.
And bacteria actually
do something similar.
Which is really cool
because bacteria are a single cell,
they don't have a brain or nerves
or anything like that.
So what bacteria do
is they do something
called the biased random walk.
For example, if they're trying
to find the source of food,
they play this game of "warmer, colder."
So as they're getting warmer,
as they're moving closer to the food,
they keep moving in this random direction.
Then whenever they get colder,
so whenever they start
to move away from the food,
they turn in a random
direction and try again.
And so basically what they're doing
is using these same behaviors
of moving forward and turning,
and they're able to really
effectively locate food.
So to mimic these behaviors,
I created this flying sensor platform.
There's an image there,
and you can see it physically here.
It has a bunch of sensors.
It has two gas sensors,
and they can sense
carbon dioxide and smoke,
which are really good markers of fire.
It also has two temperature sensors,
and a camera.
And what I'm doing here
is combining the information
from all of these sensors
to be able to locate fires.
So again,
this is the sensory fusion behavior
that we find in fruit flies.
And then to actually fly this robot,
it mimics those two behaviors.
So it first flies forward,
and then at certain points
within its flight,
it turns to change direction.
So all of this hardware
costs around 90 dollars,
compared to tens of thousands
of dollars for previous work.
So this is a really cheap platform
and it's really effective
for first responders.
And so I actually
conducted some experiments
with some local firefighters.
We set these small, controlled fires --
you can see one there --
and we had my robot find them.
So I'll let this video play,
and you'll see that it starts
really far from the fire.
It can't actually see it,
and so it uses all of these senses --
it uses gas and heat, and vision
to be able to locate it.
And you'll see that it lands
right next to the fire.
So one of the places
this can be applied is in schools --
(Applause)
So I was talking with these firefighters,
and one the things they mentioned
is that if a fire is in a school,
what they actually have to do
is go room by room
trying to find where the fire is,
because they have no information
that could help them.
So this is really inefficient,
it takes a long time,
and kids could be trapped in the school,
and they really have no way to get out.
So one of the ways this could be applied
is going into that school
and really efficiently,
within about a minute or two,
finding where the fire is
using all of these senses,
and looking at biology.
What I'm working on now
is combining all of my work.
So combining escaping,
and avoiding obstacles,
and navigation and finding things,
to create this one low-cost platform
that firefighters and first responders
can use all across the world,
to save lives with drones.
But none of this would have been possible
without the really effective
and really simple ways
in which nature has solved
all of these problems.
So let me leave you with this.
Look around.
Think about how things work.
And you'll find inspiration
in the most overlooked of places.
Thank you.
(Applause)